README.md, before:

# cloudwatch-kinesisfirehose-s3-shell
This script helps to create an environment to test *AWS Cloudwatch* logs subscription filter to *AWS Kinesis Firehose Delivery Data Stream* using a *AWS S3 bucket* as final destination. 

Please note, that we are not covering any type of data transformation. Additionally, the final action of push the load stream to the log group needs to be done by you. 

For instance, if you want to push *AWS Cloudtrail* events to the log group, you will need to go the AWS Web console then select the trail and point the train to send data to the log group defined on your subscription.conf file. 

---
 1 - Cloudtrail: From your AWS Web Console go to Cloudtrail and click *View trails"
![Cloudtrail Configuration](https://github.com/thiagofborn/cloudwatch-kinesisfirehose-s3-shell/blob/master/images/cloudtrail-0.png "Cloudtrail Events")

 2 - Cloudtrail: Select the trail you want to delivery to S3 bucket by clicking the link of the trail
![Cloudtrail Configuration](https://github.com/thiagofborn/cloudwatch-kinesisfirehose-s3-shell/blob/master/images/cloudtrail-1.png "Cloudtrail Events")

3 - Cloudtrail: Select the log group and the role
![Cloudtrail Configuration](https://github.com/thiagofborn/cloudwatch-kinesisfirehose-s3-shell/blob/master/images/cloudtrail-2.png "Cloudtrail Events")

---

In case you want to push *VPC Flow logs* to the log group, please go to your AWS Web console, select the VPC you want to have the logs being streamed, click the tab *Flow Logs*. 

1 - VPC Flow Logs: Tick the VPC you want to create the flow logs and click the tab *Flow Logs"
![Flow Logs Configuration](https://github.com/thiagofborn/cloudwatch-kinesisfirehose-s3-shell/blob/master/images/flow-0.png "VPC Flow Logs")

 2 - VPC Flow Logs: Select if you want "All Traffic", "Accepted" or "Rejected"
![Flow Logs Configuration](https://github.com/thiagofborn/cloudwatch-kinesisfirehose-s3-shell/blob/master/images/flow-1.png "VPC Flow Logs")

 3 - VPC Flow Logs: Select the Log Group Created by the Script
![Flow Logs Configuration](https://github.com/thiagofborn/cloudwatch-kinesisfirehose-s3-shell/blob/master/images/flow-2.png "VPC Flow Logs")

 4 - VPC Flow Logs: Select the *Cloudwatch* role created by the Script
![Flow Logs Configuration](https://github.com/thiagofborn/cloudwatch-kinesisfirehose-s3-shell/blob/master/images/flow-3.png "VPC Flow Logs")

---

### How it works
---
The script: 0_s3_final_destination.sh calls all the other scripts as follows:

```
1_func_create_bucket_to_the_subscription_process.sh
2_func_create_trust_policy_to_firehose_role.sh
3_func_create_firehose_role_adding_trustpolicy.sh
4_func_create_permission_policy_to_firehose_role.sh
5_func_add_permission_policy_to_firehose_role.sh
6_func_create_firehose_delivery_stream.sh
7_func_create_trust_policy_cloudwatch_role.sh
8_func_create_cloudwatch_role.sh
9_func_create_permission_policy_to_cloudwatch_role.sh
10_func_add_permission_policy_to_cloudwatch_role.sh
11_func_create_log_group.sh
12_func_put_subscription.sh
```

The definitions to create the environment needs to be defined at the file **subscription.conf** as follows:
Be sure that there is no spaces or blank lines assigned to each variable. And add your account id accordingly.
```
BUCKET_NAME=bucket2cwl2firehose2es
REGION1=eu-west-1
REGION2=eu-west-2
ACCOUNT_ID=123456789012
ROLE_NAME_FIREHOSE=Role_cwl2FIREHOSE2es
ROLE_NAME_CWL=Role_2CWL2firehose2es
LOG_GROUP_NAME=LogGroupName_cwl2firehose2es
MY_DELIVERY_STREAM_NAME=Firehose_cwl2firehose2es
DESTINATION_NAME=DestinationName_cwl2firehose2e
```

The script receives the values from the file and executes each script that is composed by shell scripts commands and AWS CLI commands to create the test environment. 

## Output 
---
A AWS Kinesis Firehose Delivery Data Stream that receives data from Cloudwatch Logs via subscription filter, and then delivers this data to a S3 bucket. Also the policies and roles involved to make the actions possible. The table below shows the result based on the default **subscription.conf**. 


Per service the script creates: 
AWS Service Name | Resouce Name | Resouce Type | Quantity
--- | --- | --- | ---
*Kinesis Firehose Delivery Data Stream* | Firehose_cwl2firehose2es | Delivery Stream | 1
*IAM*| Role_cwl2FIREHOSE2es, Role_2CWL2firehose2es | Role |  2
*IAM*| In-line Policy | Permissions-Policy-For-Firehose, Permissions-Policy-For-CWL | 2
*Cloudwatch*| Log-group | LogGroupName_cwl2firehose2es | 1

## Heads up about the Log Group Creation and Put Log subscription
---
It seems the Log Group creation takes a while to get done, so I had to delay the last step (*12_func_put_subscription.sh*) via the *0_s3_final_destination.sh*. 
So, in case you notice the error message: 
```
.                                                                                 .
      "An error occurred (InvalidParameterException) when calling the 
      PutSubscriptionFilter operation: Could not deliver test message to specified 
      Firehose stream. Check if the given Firehose stream is in ACTIVE state."
.                                                                                 .
```

## Deletion of the test environment 
---
The deletion of the test environment reads the same file **subscription.conf** and executes *AWS CLI commands* to delete everything that was created via the script. The script ```13_func_clean_up.sh``` does the "clean" action, deleting the environment.

Commit message:

Motivation... Why SHELL? My friends :)

README.md, after:

# cloudwatch-kinesisfirehose-s3-shell
This script helps to create an environment to test *AWS Cloudwatch* logs subscription filter to *AWS Kinesis Firehose Delivery Data Stream* using a *AWS S3 bucket* as final destination. The shell script adoption for this test environment was motivated by my Linux friends. 

Please note, that we are not covering any type of data transformation. Additionally, the final action of push the load stream to the log group needs to be done by you. 

For instance, if you want to push *AWS Cloudtrail* events to the log group, you will need to go the AWS Web console then select the trail and point the train to send data to the log group defined on your subscription.conf file. 

---
 1 - Cloudtrail: From your AWS Web Console go to Cloudtrail and click *View trails"
![Cloudtrail Configuration](https://github.com/thiagofborn/cloudwatch-kinesisfirehose-s3-shell/blob/master/images/cloudtrail-0.png "Cloudtrail Events")

 2 - Cloudtrail: Select the trail you want to delivery to S3 bucket by clicking the link of the trail
![Cloudtrail Configuration](https://github.com/thiagofborn/cloudwatch-kinesisfirehose-s3-shell/blob/master/images/cloudtrail-1.png "Cloudtrail Events")

3 - Cloudtrail: Select the log group and the role
![Cloudtrail Configuration](https://github.com/thiagofborn/cloudwatch-kinesisfirehose-s3-shell/blob/master/images/cloudtrail-2.png "Cloudtrail Events")

---

In case you want to push *VPC Flow logs* to the log group, please go to your AWS Web console, select the VPC you want to have the logs being streamed, click the tab *Flow Logs*. 

1 - VPC Flow Logs: Tick the VPC you want to create the flow logs and click the tab *Flow Logs"
![Flow Logs Configuration](https://github.com/thiagofborn/cloudwatch-kinesisfirehose-s3-shell/blob/master/images/flow-0.png "VPC Flow Logs")

 2 - VPC Flow Logs: Select if you want "All Traffic", "Accepted" or "Rejected"
![Flow Logs Configuration](https://github.com/thiagofborn/cloudwatch-kinesisfirehose-s3-shell/blob/master/images/flow-1.png "VPC Flow Logs")

 3 - VPC Flow Logs: Select the Log Group Created by the Script
![Flow Logs Configuration](https://github.com/thiagofborn/cloudwatch-kinesisfirehose-s3-shell/blob/master/images/flow-2.png "VPC Flow Logs")

 4 - VPC Flow Logs: Select the *Cloudwatch* role created by the Script
![Flow Logs Configuration](https://github.com/thiagofborn/cloudwatch-kinesisfirehose-s3-shell/blob/master/images/flow-3.png "VPC Flow Logs")

---

### How it works
---
The script: 0_s3_final_destination.sh calls all the other scripts as follows:

```
1_func_create_bucket_to_the_subscription_process.sh
2_func_create_trust_policy_to_firehose_role.sh
3_func_create_firehose_role_adding_trustpolicy.sh
4_func_create_permission_policy_to_firehose_role.sh
5_func_add_permission_policy_to_firehose_role.sh
6_func_create_firehose_delivery_stream.sh
7_func_create_trust_policy_cloudwatch_role.sh
8_func_create_cloudwatch_role.sh
9_func_create_permission_policy_to_cloudwatch_role.sh
10_func_add_permission_policy_to_cloudwatch_role.sh
11_func_create_log_group.sh
12_func_put_subscription.sh
```

The definitions to create the environment needs to be defined at the file **subscription.conf** as follows:
Be sure that there is no spaces or blank lines assigned to each variable. And add your account id accordingly.
```
BUCKET_NAME=bucket2cwl2firehose2es
REGION1=eu-west-1
REGION2=eu-west-2
ACCOUNT_ID=123456789012
ROLE_NAME_FIREHOSE=Role_cwl2FIREHOSE2es
ROLE_NAME_CWL=Role_2CWL2firehose2es
LOG_GROUP_NAME=LogGroupName_cwl2firehose2es
MY_DELIVERY_STREAM_NAME=Firehose_cwl2firehose2es
DESTINATION_NAME=DestinationName_cwl2firehose2e
```

The script receives the values from the file and executes each script that is composed by shell scripts commands and AWS CLI commands to create the test environment. 

## Output 
---
A AWS Kinesis Firehose Delivery Data Stream that receives data from Cloudwatch Logs via subscription filter, and then delivers this data to a S3 bucket. Also the policies and roles involved to make the actions possible. The table below shows the result based on the default **subscription.conf**. 


Per service the script creates: 
AWS Service Name | Resouce Name | Resouce Type | Quantity
--- | --- | --- | ---
*Kinesis Firehose Delivery Data Stream* | Firehose_cwl2firehose2es | Delivery Stream | 1
*IAM*| Role_cwl2FIREHOSE2es, Role_2CWL2firehose2es | Role |  2
*IAM*| In-line Policy | Permissions-Policy-For-Firehose, Permissions-Policy-For-CWL | 2
*Cloudwatch*| Log-group | LogGroupName_cwl2firehose2es | 1

## Heads up about the Log Group Creation and Put Log subscription
---
It seems the Log Group creation takes a while to get done, so I had to delay the last step (*12_func_put_subscription.sh*) via the *0_s3_final_destination.sh*. 
So, in case you notice the error message: 
```
.                                                                                 .
      "An error occurred (InvalidParameterException) when calling the 
      PutSubscriptionFilter operation: Could not deliver test message to specified 
      Firehose stream. Check if the given Firehose stream is in ACTIVE state."
.                                                                                 .
```

## Deletion of the test environment 
---
The deletion of the test environment reads the same file **subscription.conf** and executes *AWS CLI commands* to delete everything that was created via the script. The script ```13_func_clean_up.sh``` does the "clean" action, deleting the environment.
